README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">
  🎟️
  <br/>
  turnstyle
</h1>

<p align="center">
   A GitHub Action for serializing workflow runs
</p>

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/rpadaki/turnstyle/actions">
		<img src="https://github.com/rpadaki/turnstyle/workflows/Main/badge.svg"/>
	</a>
</div>

<br />

## 🤔 why bother

GitHub Actions is an event-oriented system. Your workflows run in response to events and are triggered independently and without coordination. In a shared repository, if two or more people merge pull requests, each will trigger workflows without regard to one another.

This can be problematic for workflows used as part of a continuous deployment process. You might want to let an in-flight deployment complete before progressing further with the next workflow. This is the usecase turnstyle action targets.

## 🤸 Usage

The typical setup for turnstyle involves adding job step using `rpadaki/turnstyle@v1`.

```diff
name: Main

on: push

jobs:
  main:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Checkout
        uses: actions/checkout@v2
+     - name: Turnstyle
+       uses: rpadaki/turnstyle@v1
+       env:
+         GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
      - name: Deploy
        run: sleep 30
```

### Timing out

To avoid waiting prolonged periods of time, you may wish to bail on a run or continuing a workflow run regardless of the status of the previous run.

You can bail from a run using the built-in GitHub Actions [`jobs.<job_id>.timeout-minutes`](https://help.github.com/en/actions/automating-your-workflow-with-github-actions/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#jobsjob_idtimeout-minutes) setting

```diff
name: Main

on: push

jobs:
  main:
+   timeout-minutes: 5
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Checkout
        uses: actions/checkout@v2
      - name: Turnstyle
        uses: softprops/turnstyle@v1
        env:
          GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
      - name: Deploy
        run: sleep 30
```

You can also limit how long you're willing to wait before moving on with `jobs.<job_id>.steps.with.continue-after-seconds`

```diff
name: Main

on: push

jobs:
  main:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Checkout
        uses: actions/checkout@v2
      - name: Turnstyle
        uses: softprops/turnstyle@v1
        with:
+         continue-after-seconds: 180
        env:
          GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
      - name: Deploy
        run: sleep 30
```

or before aborting the step with `jobs.<job_id>.steps.with.abort-after-seconds`


```diff
name: Main

on: push

jobs:
  main:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Checkout
        uses: actions/checkout@v2
      - name: Turnstyle
        uses: softprops/turnstyle@v1
        with:
+         abort-after-seconds: 180
        env:
          GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
      - name: Deploy
        run: sleep 30
```

Finally, you can use the `force_continued` output to skip only a subset of steps
by setting `continue-after-seconds` and conditioning future steps with
`if: ! steps.<step id>.outputs.force_continued`


```diff
name: Main

on: push

jobs:
  main:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Checkout
        uses: actions/checkout@v2
      - name: Turnstyle
        id: turnstyle
        uses: softprops/turnstyle@v1
        with:
+         continue-after-seconds: 180
        env:
          GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
      - name: Deploy
+       if: ! steps.turnstyle.outputs.force_continued
        run: sleep 30
```

#### inputs

| Name                    | Type    | Description                                                                                                                    |
|-------------------------|---------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `continue-after-seconds`| number  | Maximum number of seconds to wait before moving forward (unbound by default). Mutually exclusive with abort-after-seconds      |
| `abort-after-seconds`   | number  | Maximum number of seconds to wait before aborting the job (unbound by default). Mutually exclusive with continue-after-seconds |
| `poll-interval-seconds` | number  | Number of seconds to wait in between checks for previous run completion (defaults to 60)                                       |
| `same-branch-only`      | boolean | Only wait on other runs from the same branch (defaults to true)                                                                |

#### outputs

| Name                    | Type     | Description                                                                                     |
|-------------------------|----------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `force_continued`       | boolean  | True if continue-after-seconds is used and the step using turnstyle continued. False otherwise. |

#### environment variables

The following are *required* as `step.env` keys

| Name           | Description                          |
|----------------|--------------------------------------|
| `GITHUB_TOKEN` | GITHUB_TOKEN as provided by `secrets`|

## cost of coordination

At this time there is no way to coordinate between workflow runs beyond waiting. For those using private repositories, [you are charged based on the time your workflow spends running](https://github.com/features/actions#pricing-details). Waiting within one workflow run for another to complete will incur the cost of the time spent waiting.

Doug Tangren (softprops) 2020

Commit message:

Adding initialWaitSeconds input parameter
A positive value can be specified as value to this parameter
to instruct this action to wait and poll the GitHub API
if no in_progress runs are returned in the first attempt.

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">
  🎟️
  <br/>
  turnstyle
</h1>

<p align="center">
   A GitHub Action for serializing workflow runs
</p>

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/rpadaki/turnstyle/actions">
		<img src="https://github.com/rpadaki/turnstyle/workflows/Main/badge.svg"/>
	</a>
</div>

<br />

## 🤔 why bother

GitHub Actions is an event-oriented system. Your workflows run in response to events and are triggered independently and without coordination. In a shared repository, if two or more people merge pull requests, each will trigger workflows without regard to one another.

This can be problematic for workflows used as part of a continuous deployment process. You might want to let an in-flight deployment complete before progressing further with the next workflow. This is the usecase turnstyle action targets.

## 🤸 Usage

The typical setup for turnstyle involves adding job step using `rpadaki/turnstyle@v1`.

```diff
name: Main

on: push

jobs:
  main:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Checkout
        uses: actions/checkout@v2
+     - name: Turnstyle
+       uses: rpadaki/turnstyle@v1
+       env:
+         GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
      - name: Deploy
        run: sleep 30
```

### Timing out

To avoid waiting prolonged periods of time, you may wish to bail on a run or continuing a workflow run regardless of the status of the previous run.

You can bail from a run using the built-in GitHub Actions [`jobs.<job_id>.timeout-minutes`](https://help.github.com/en/actions/automating-your-workflow-with-github-actions/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#jobsjob_idtimeout-minutes) setting

```diff
name: Main

on: push

jobs:
  main:
+   timeout-minutes: 5
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Checkout
        uses: actions/checkout@v2
      - name: Turnstyle
        uses: softprops/turnstyle@v1
        env:
          GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
      - name: Deploy
        run: sleep 30
```

You can also limit how long you're willing to wait before moving on with `jobs.<job_id>.steps.with.continue-after-seconds`

```diff
name: Main

on: push

jobs:
  main:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Checkout
        uses: actions/checkout@v2
      - name: Turnstyle
        uses: softprops/turnstyle@v1
        with:
+         continue-after-seconds: 180
        env:
          GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
      - name: Deploy
        run: sleep 30
```

or before aborting the step with `jobs.<job_id>.steps.with.abort-after-seconds`


```diff
name: Main

on: push

jobs:
  main:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Checkout
        uses: actions/checkout@v2
      - name: Turnstyle
        uses: softprops/turnstyle@v1
        with:
+         abort-after-seconds: 180
        env:
          GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
      - name: Deploy
        run: sleep 30
```

Finally, you can use the `force_continued` output to skip only a subset of steps
by setting `continue-after-seconds` and conditioning future steps with
`if: ! steps.<step id>.outputs.force_continued`


```diff
name: Main

on: push

jobs:
  main:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Checkout
        uses: actions/checkout@v2
      - name: Turnstyle
        id: turnstyle
        uses: softprops/turnstyle@v1
        with:
+         continue-after-seconds: 180
        env:
          GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
      - name: Deploy
+       if: ! steps.turnstyle.outputs.force_continued
        run: sleep 30
```

#### inputs

| Name                    | Type    | Description                                                                                                                    |
|-------------------------|---------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `continue-after-seconds`| number  | Maximum number of seconds to wait before moving forward (unbound by default). Mutually exclusive with abort-after-seconds      |
| `abort-after-seconds`   | number  | Maximum number of seconds to wait before aborting the job (unbound by default). Mutually exclusive with continue-after-seconds |
| `poll-interval-seconds` | number  | Number of seconds to wait in between checks for previous run completion (defaults to 60)                                       |
| `same-branch-only`      | boolean | Only wait on other runs from the same branch (defaults to true)                                                                |
| `initial-wait-seconds`  | number  | Total elapsed seconds within which period the action will refresh the list of current runs, if no runs were found in the first attempt |

#### outputs

| Name                    | Type     | Description                                                                                     |
|-------------------------|----------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `force_continued`       | boolean  | True if continue-after-seconds is used and the step using turnstyle continued. False otherwise. |

#### environment variables

The following are *required* as `step.env` keys

| Name           | Description                          |
|----------------|--------------------------------------|
| `GITHUB_TOKEN` | GITHUB_TOKEN as provided by `secrets`|

## cost of coordination

At this time there is no way to coordinate between workflow runs beyond waiting. For those using private repositories, [you are charged based on the time your workflow spends running](https://github.com/features/actions#pricing-details). Waiting within one workflow run for another to complete will incur the cost of the time spent waiting.

Doug Tangren (softprops) 2020
